and as those negotiations continue
inside Gaza Palestinians aren't just
trying to escape Israel's continuous
bombardment they are also facing what
the UN has called a perfect storm for
diseases nearly 2 million people that's
almost the entire population has been
displaced some several times they're
forced to live in cramped conditions and
overcrowded U and public shelters most
have sought refuge in the South Rafa is
now gaza's most densely populated area
with more than 600,000 internally
displaced Palestinians Sheltering there
overcrowded shelters means a lack of
hygiene and diseases are spreading
rapidly Health officials have recorded
355,000 cases of skin diseases and
infections cases of diarrhea among
younger children than five have
increased
2,000% and there are more than 160,000
cases of acute respiratory infection C
Palestinians don't have enough to eat or
drink the UN says half the population is
starving UNICEF says the recently
displaced children in southern Gaza can
only access 1.5 to 2 lers of water a day
which is not enough to
survive let's bring in Dr Ahmed mugabi
he is the head of plastic surgery at
Nasser Hospital in Gaza and he's joining
us live from can yunes Dr mugabi it's
good to see you thank you very much for
giving us the time again just how much
pressure is your hospital under at the
moment given the scale of injuries in
Central and Southern
Gaza okay uh thank you actually for
giving me this opportunity to speak to
the outer
world uh actually it's been 80 Days
actually of miserable life I can tell
you here is a miserable life totally
miserable life
and here actually I want actually to ask
the Biden administrations and the
leaders of the War and who send these
prohibited mass destruction women to
Israel actually we are not Target as
they target everywhere and everything
now I don't know actually I don't know
how many days how many days do we have
to go without food without medical
supplies without clean clean water yeah
and actually how many more of us have to
die how many more of us have to die
really how many more of us have to die
here as civilians how many more of us
have to die how many more videos how
many more videos actually do you have to
see us civilians our children are being
killed under your vision okay I don't
know how many more how many more how
many more me as a doctor as a sergeon
here actually I can't save lives
properly as I'm supposed to because I
don't have rubber instruments I don't
have rubber
medical supplies please tell me how
could I stand and for for how long I
could stand here at this situation I'm
working continuously I'm working
continuously 24 hours everybody's
watching me there please I'm asking you
actually my patients they don't have
proper food they don't have enough food
actually actually to heal their wounds
they don't have clean water I don't know
what what we are supposed to do I don't
know you are as a democratic countries
there
I don't know how how would you allow how
would you allow the entire population to
serve just to serve our children
actually not only they are dying from
bombs or snipers or dragging them and
execute them outside of the outside of
their houses and execute at the at the
check points they are dying from Hunger
from cold from contamination of the
water this it this is this is my
situation it is ter I don't know became
psychological I developed psychological
disorders seeing it is a terrible every
day these St they turn our civilians our
children and torn pieces please help us
we are not Target you are a plastic
surgeon so Dr M expect from from me
actually to tell you nothing to tell you
can you try to tell us you are a plastic
surgeon can you tell us about the types
of injuries that you are treating and
what is happening to your patients the
many patients who are at Naser Hospital
given that you were saying that all
medical organizations are saying that
doctors such as yourself just do not
have the equipment the medicine to treat
the injured so what is happening to
them exactly exactly exactly many
patients actually are dying every day
because of lack of some drugs or some
instrumentations can you be believe that
actually when you when you receive mass
mass casualties patients when you
receive like 20 30 40 50 blah blah blah
blah blah of these patients how do you
think how could I manage all these
people and many of our medical staff
couldn't attend the hospital because my
hospital now considered as a b hospital
where to go no safe place actually to go
we are trapped we are trapped in this
box they we are trapped in this box and
they are killing us I don't know where
to go where is the safe area Gaza
anybody tells me please I know Dr M how
could I treat my patients I don't know
me as a as a surgeon actually I spent 15
years of my life actually to treat
patients but I couldn't I couldn't treat
them as I'm supposed to yeah and how
difficult is that for you Dr mcrai I
know that you yourself have lost your
home you've brought your family to stay
at Nasser hospital when we spoke a week
or so ago I remember you saying that you
know you you are working throughout the
day and there you get two meals
if you are lucky so how difficult is
this situation for you to carry out do
your best to carry out your job not
having the resources not being able to
help people like you have been trained
to actually yeah yeah despite all these
difficulties you have seen before yeah
really I I have lost my home I brought
my family here at NAS Hospital
everything
You know despite all these difficulties
but I'm trying actually to do my best
actually to treat my patients it's for
my heart really uh really you know since
80 days I'm working
continuously uh there actually there
were those days I don't know at the
beginning of the war I used to work
alone here because you know many of
medical personnel stuff couldn't attend
the hospital so I till now I'm working
24 hours I'm doing my best actually to
save lives
but for for for how long I don't know
for how long could I stand I don't know
really I don't know Dr mcrai we thank
you very much for joining us on Al jazer
to give us a picture of what you're
experiencing at Nasa hospital and Kan
yunas